.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Dimitar Toshkov Zhekov
.TH BIZE 8 "15 Mar 2004"
.SH NAME
bize \- ROCK-Linux .tar.bz2 package manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "bize -i [-t] [-v] [-f] [-R " root "] " package1.tar.bz2
.BI ...
.LP
.BI "bize -r [-t] [-v] [-f] [-R " root "] " package1 ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bize
is a shell script capable of installing, updating and removing
ROCK-Linux .tar.bz2 package files. It implements a subset of
.B mine
options.
.SS Requirements
.BR md5sum ", " sort ", " rm ", " rmdir ", " mkdir ", " tar " and
.BR bzip2 .
All these are standard programs present in any Linux system, but
.B bize
checks for them on startup anyway.
The presence of
.B md5sum
and of md5sum entries files is checked only if
.B "\-f"
is not specified.
.SS Compatibility
The .tar.bz2 and .gem formats are not compatible. Packages
installed with
.B bize
can be removed with
.B mine
and vice-versa.
.B bize
has not been tested with ROCK-Linux 1.6 or earlier. Some of the
ROCK-Linux 1.7.0+ targets produce .tar.bz2 packages only.
.SS Effectiveness
.B bize
installs packages slightly faster than
.BR "mine "
and removes them several times slower. Much more time is required
to install a package than to remove it, so
.B bize
is, overall, about 20% slower than
.BR mine .
The .tar.bz2 packages are a bit smaller than the .gem packages and
are created a bit faster.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-i"
Install or update packages.
.TP
.B "\-r"
Remove packages.
.TP
.B "\-t"
Test mode. Show what will happen without doing it.
.TP
.B "\-v"
Be verbose.
.TP
.B "\-f"
Force removal/replacement of the modified files.
.TP
.BI "\-r " root
Use
.I root
as root directory instead of /.
.TP
.B "\-\-"
Terminate the option list.
.SH BUGS
Regular files with no md5sum entry are ignored in test mode and
treated as modified in real mode unless
.B "\-f"
is specified. A normally built and installed ROCK-Linux package
must include such an entry for each regular file.
.SH SEE ALSO
GEM-MINE
